Bitbucket Pipelines documentation (#117)
buildkite/migration: docs/Bitbucket.md

# Bitbucket Pipelines

The Buildkite Migration tool's currently supported (✅), partially supported (⚠️) and unsupported (❌) properties in translation of Bitbucket pipelines to Buildkite pipelines are listed below.

### Clone (`clone`)

| Key | Supported? | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- |

> | `clone` | ⚠️ | Clone options for all steps of a Bitbucket pipeline. The majority of these options should be set on a Buildkite agent itself via [configuration](https://buildkite.com/docs/agent/v3/configuration) of properties such as the clone flags (`git-clone-flags`, `git-clone-mirror-flags` if utilising a Git mirror), fetch flags (`git-fetch-flags`) - or changing the entire checkout process in a customised [plugin](https://buildkite.com/docs/plugins/writing) overriding the default agent `checkout` hook. Sparse checkout options are supported (with the `sparse-checkout` sub-property). `clone` properties at the Bitbucket pipeline step level take higher precedent over these global properties if set. |

Author: Amended in the latest PR 👍

| `clone.sparse-checkout` | ✅ | Sparse-checkout option for all Bitbucket pipeline steps. Translated to utilising the [sparse-checkout-buildkite-plugin](https://github.com/buildkite-plugins/sparse-checkout-buildkite-plugin). |
| `clone.sparse-checkout.code-mode` | ✅ | Whether the checkout patterns are considered to be a list of patterns (passed as the `--no-cone` flag to `git sparse-checkout` command). |
| `clone.sparse-checkout.enabled` | ✅ | Whether sparse checkout is enabled for all Bitbucket pipeline steps. |

> | `clone.sparse-checkout.patterns` | ✅ | The list of paths to invoke a sparse checkout for. Can be a pattern to a specific file, directory, or wildcard for all files belonging within a certain directory. |

Author: Tweaked in the latest PR 👍

### Definitions (`definitions`)

| Key | Supported? | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `definitions` | ⚠️ | Customised definitions utilised throughout a Bitbucket pipeline. `caches` and `services` are supported for translation within Buildkite Migration tool. |

> | `definitions.caches` | ✅ | Customised cache definitions that can be applied to specific Bitbucket pipeline steps - inclusive of folders, single file - or multifile cache. Targeted into specific steps with the `pipelines.default.step.caches.<name>` property. |

Author: 👍

| `definitions.caches.<name>` | ✅ | A customised cache name applicable for one or more steps within a Bitbucket pipeline. |
| `definitions.caches.<name>.path` | ✅ | The directory path that is desired to be cached. |

> | `definitions.caches.<name>.key.files` | ✅ | The list (one or more) files that are monitored for changes - and stored once its hash changes between file versions change. |

Author: Adjusted in latest PR 👍

> | `definitions.caches.<name>.key.files` | ✅ | The list (one or more) files that are monitored for changes - and stored once its hash changes between file versions change. |

Reviewer: can't see the checkmark being changed to a warning nor the caveats with multiple `key.files`

> | `definitions.caches.<name>.key.files` | ✅ | The list (one or more) files that are monitored for changes - and stored once its hash changes between file versions change. |

Author: Latest commit will reflect 👍

> | `definitions.pipeline` | ❌ | Pipelines that are exported for re-use within repositories of the same workspace. Like functionality exists within Buildkite as [Pipeline Templates](https://buildkite.com/docs/pipelines/templates). |

Author: 👍

> | `definitions.pipeline` | ❌ | Pipelines that are exported for re-use within repositories of the same workspace. Like functionality exists within Buildkite as [Pipeline Templates](https://buildkite.com/docs/pipelines/templates). |

Reviewer: I still think that this should be changed to a warning and at least a note about them being actually translated in the result

> | `definitions.pipeline` | ❌ | Pipelines that are exported for re-use within repositories of the same workspace. Like functionality exists within Buildkite as [Pipeline Templates](https://buildkite.com/docs/pipelines/templates). |

Author: Switched this over now to a warning 👍

> | `definitions.services` | ✅ | Defined Docker services that are applied within a Bitbucket pipeline. Services defined in a corresponding Bitbucket pipeline step using the `pipelines.default.step.services` property will have its configuration applied with the use of the [docker-compose-buildkite-plugin](https://github.com/buildkite-plugins/docker-compose-buildkite-plugin). By default - configuration will be saved to a `compose.yaml` in the job environment. |

Author: 👍

> | `definitions.services.<name>` | ✅ | The name of an individual Docker service that will be applied within a specific step of the Bitbucket pipeline. |

Author: Removing 👍

### Export (`export`)

| Key | Supported? | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `export` | ❌ | Bitbucket Premium option of sharing pipeline configuration between workspaces. Not applicable within Buildkite as an attribute - like functionality exists within [Pipeline Templates](https://buildkite.com/docs/pipelines/templates). |

### Image (`image`)

| Key | Supported? | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- |

> | `image` | ✅ | The container image that is to be applied for each step within a Bitbucket pipeline, utilising the specified image within the [docker-buildkite-plugin](https://github.com/buildkite-plugins/docker-buildkite-plugin). This has lower precedence over per-step `image` configuration (see `pipelines.default.step.image`). The `name`, `username` and `password` properties below are the alternate way of defining all Bitbucket pipeline steps to use a specific image (with authentication). |

Author: Nixed it (also in the `pipelines` table row

| `image.name` | ✅ | The name of the image to utilise within all Bitbucket pipeline steps. Translated to the `image` property within the [docker-buildkite-plugin](https://github.com/buildkite-plugins/docker-buildkite-plugin) (if the image name was already not set in the `image` property above itself). |
| `image.username` | ✅ | The username of the user for private Docker images hosted on a given registry. Translated to the `username` property within the [docker-login-buildkite-plugin](https://github.com/buildkite-plugins/docker-login-buildkite-plugin) |

> | `image.password` | ✅ | The password of the user for private Docker images hosted on a given registry. Translated to the `password` property within the [docker-login-buildkite-plugin](https://github.com/buildkite-plugins/docker-login-buildkite-plugin). Be sure to utilise [best practices](https://buildkite.com/docs/pipelines/secrets) for storing and accessing secrets within a Buildkite pipeline! |

Author: Added - also the ECR snippets 👍

### Options (`options`)

| Key | Supported? | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- |

> | `options` | ⚠️ | Customised options utilised throughout a Bitbucket pipeline. `max-time` and `size` are supported for translation within Buildkite Migration tool. |

Author: Tweaked and removed the sub-properties in favour for a base explanation at options level

| `options.size` | ✅ | Allocation of sizing options for the given memory for all steps within a Bitbucket pipeline. The `size` value will be set as an agent [tag](https://buildkite.com/docs/pipelines/defining-steps#targeting-specific-agents) in the Buildkite command step for targeting on specific Buildkite agents within an organization. Bitbucket pipeline step-level definition (`pipelines.default.step.size`) will override this value. |

### Pipelines (`pipelines`)

| Key | Supported? | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `pipelines.branches` | ✅ | Application of specific Bitbucket pipeline configuration based for specific branches. Translated to a [step conditional](https://buildkite.com/docs/pipelines/conditionals#conditionals-in-steps) in the corresponding Buildkite pipeline utilising the `build.branch`/`BUILDKITE_BRANCH` variable. |
| `pipelines.branches.<branch>` | ✅ | The branch name/wildcard to apply specific Bitbucket pipeline step configuration within. |

> | `pipelines.branches.<branch>.step` | ✅ | Individual step configuration for a specific branch within a Bitbucket pipeline. See configuration options in this section (`pipelines.default.step.<property>`) for supported/unsupported properties. |

Author: 👍

| `pipelines.custom` | ✅ | Bitbucket pipelines that are only able to be triggered manually. The corresponding Buildkite pipeline is first generated with an [input step](https://buildkite.com/docs/pipelines/input-step) before any command jobs to ensure that triggered builds must be manually processed. |

> | `pipelines.custom.<name>.step` | ✅ | Individual step configuration for a custom Bitbucket pipeline. See configuration options in this section (`pipelines.default.step.<property>`) for supported/unsupported properties. |

Author: 👍

> | `pipelines.default.parallel` | ✅ | The grouping of multiple steps within a Bitbucket pipeline that are to be run concurrently. By default, Buildkite executes steps in parallel unless [implicit or explicit](https://buildkite.com/docs/pipelines/dependencies) dependencies are set. Parallel Bitbucket pipeline steps are transitioned into a [group step](https://buildkite.com/docs/pipelines/group-step) within the generated Buildkite pipeline without explicit dependencies. |

Author: Adjusted 👍

| `pipelines.default.parallel.fail-fast` | ❌ | Whether a Bitbucket pipeline allows this parallel step to fail entirely if it fails (set as `true`), or allows failures (set as `false`). Consider using a combination of `soft_fail` and/or `cancel_on_build_failing` in the corresponding Buildkite command steps' [attributes](https://buildkite.com/docs/pipelines/command-step#command-step-attributes) for a similar [approach](https://buildkite.com/docs/pipelines/command-step#fail-fast). |

> | `pipelines.default.parallel.steps` | ❌ | Individual step configuration for a custom Bitbucket pipeline. See configuration options in this section (`pipelines.default.step.<property>`) for supported/unsupported properties. |

Author: One that slipped by - I've removed it anyway 👍

| `pipelines.default.stage` | ✅ | The logical grouping of one or more Bitbucket pipeline steps. Bitbucket pipeline stages are translated into the corresponding Buildkite pipeline as a [group step](https://buildkite.com/docs/pipelines/group-step). |

> | `pipelines.default.stage.condition.changeset.includePaths` | ✅ | The specific file (or files) that need to be detected as changed for the `condition` to apply based. This can be set as specific files - or wildcards that match multiple files in a specific directory/directories. |

Author: Suggested and changed 👍

| `pipelines.default.stage.name` | ✅ | The name of the Bitbucket pipeline stage. Transitioned to the `group` label of the corresponding Buildkite [group step](https://buildkite.com/docs/pipelines/group-step). |

> | `pipelines.default.stage.steps` | ✅ | Individual step configuration for a Bitbucket pipeline stage. See configuration options in this section (`pipelines.default.step.<property>`) for supported/unsupported properties. |

Author: 👍

| `pipelines.default.stage.trigger` | ✅ | The configuration setting the running of a Bitbucket pipeline stage manually or automatically (latter being defaulted). For `manual` triggers - an [input step](https://buildkite.com/docs/pipelines/input-step) is inserted into the generated Buildkite pipeline's group step before the specified `steps` of this stage. An explicit dependencies with `depends_on` are set between the input step and the following steps to ensure manual processing is required for these to run. |

> | `pipelines.default.step` | ✅ | The list (one or more) of individual execution units that make up a workflow within a Bitbucket pipeline. Run from top-to-bottom, with a 100 step limit. |

Author: 👍

> | `pipelines.default.step.after-script` | ❌ | The actions that a Bitbucket pipeline will undertake after the commands in the `script` key are run. For similar behaviour, a [repository-level](https://buildkite.com/docs/agent/v3/hooks#hook-locations-repository-hooks) `pre-exit` hook approach will yield similar behaviour - running at the latter end of the [job lifecycle](https://buildkite.com/docs/agent/v3/hooks#job-lifecycle-hooks). |

Author: I'll be doing the sub-section for `pipelines` in a second pass - once each one of these suggestions are in place 👍

> | `pipelines.default.step.artifacts` | ✅ | Build artifacts that will be required for steps later in the Bitbucket pipeline. Artifacts that are specified (whether one specific file, or multiple) will be set within the generated Buildkite pipeline's command step within the `artifact_paths` [key](https://buildkite.com/docs/pipelines/command-step). Each file found matching (or via glob syntax) will be uploaded to Buildkite's [Artifact storage](https://buildkite.com/docs/agent/v3/cli-artifact) that can be obtained in later steps. |

Author: 👍  - and I've also added a note on using `buildkite-agent artifact download` before in subsequent steps if artifacts are required to be used post-hoc!

| `pipelines.default.step.caches` | ✅ | Step-level dependencies downloaded from external sources (Docker, Maven, PyPi for example) which will be able to be re-used in later Bitbucket pipeline steps. Caches that are set at step level (or though the top-level `definition.cache.<name> property) are translated in the corresponding Buildkite pipeline utilising the [cache-buildkite-plugin](https://github.com/buildkite-plugins/cache-buildkite-plugin) to store the downloaded dependencies for re-use between Buildkite builds. |

> | `pipelines.default.step.caches.<name>` | ✅ | Cache names that are reflective of specific tooling required for the specific Bitbucket pipeline. Default caches consist of `docker`, `composer`, `dotnetcore`, `gradle`, `ivy2`, `maven`, `node`, `pip` and `sbt`. Customised caches can be applied within a `definitions.caches.<name> object and applied at this layer. |

Author: 👍

> | `pipelines.default.step.condition` | ✅ | The configuration to prevent a Bitbucket pipeline step from running unless the specific conditional is met. Translated to an inline conditional (`if`) within the corresponding Buildkite pipelines' command step's `commands` - based on a `git diff` of the base branch. |

Author: 👍

| `pipelines.default.step.clone.sparse-checkout` | ✅ | Sparse-checkout option for a Bitbucket pipeline step. Translated to utilising the [sparse-checkout-buildkite-plugin](https://github.com/buildkite-plugins/sparse-checkout-buildkite-plugin). |
| `pipelines.default.step.clone.sparse-checkout.code-mode` | ✅ | Whether the checkout patterns are considered to be a list of patterns (passed as the `--no-cone` flag to `git sparse-checkout` command). |
| `pipelines.default.step.clone.sparse-checkout.enabled` | ✅ | Whether sparse checkout is enabled for the Bitbucket pipeline step. |

> | `pipelines.default.step.clone.sparse-checkout.patterns` | ✅ | The list of paths to invoke a sparse checkout for. Can be a pattern to a specific file, directory, or wildcard for all files belonging within a certain directory. |

Author: As above with `clone` parent key 👍

| `pipelines.default.step.image` | ✅ | The container image that is to be applied for a specific step within a Bitbucket pipeline. Images set at this level will be applied irrespective of the pipeline-level `image` key that is set, and will be applied in the corresponding Buildkite pipeline using the [docker-buildkite-plugin](https://github.com/buildkite-plugins/docker-buildkite-plugin). The `name`, `username` and `password` properties below are the alternate way of defining a Bitbucket pipeline step to use a specific image (with authentication). |
| `pipelines.default.step.image.name` | ✅ | The name of the image to utilise within the Bitbucket pipeline step. Translated to the `image` property within the [docker-buildkite-plugin](https://github.com/buildkite-plugins/docker-buildkite-plugin) (if the image name was already not set in the `pipelines.default.step.image` property above itself.) |
| `pipelines.default.step.image.username` | ✅ | The username of the user for private Docker images hosted on a given registry. Translated to the `username` property within the [docker-login-buildkite-plugin](https://github.com/buildkite-plugins/docker-login-buildkite-plugin) |

> | `pipelines.default.step.image.password` | ✅ | The password of the user for private Docker images hosted on a given registry. Translated to the `password` property within the [docker-login-buildkite-plugin](https://github.com/buildkite-plugins/docker-login-buildkite-plugin). Be sure to utilise [best practices](https://buildkite.com/docs/pipelines/secrets) for storing and accessing secrets within a Buildkite pipeline! |

Reviewer: I would just include the main `image` key here and link to the general option for more information

Author: Tweaked this part (and also the parent `image` key) entirely with the sub-property support instead of seperate rows

| `pipelines.default.step.max-time` | ✅ | The maximum allowable time that a step within a Bitbucket pipeline is able to run for. Translates to the corresponding Buildkite pipelines' command step `timeout_in_minutes` attribute. |
| `pipelines.default.step.name` | ✅ | The name of a specific step within a Bitbucket pipeline. Translates to a Buildkite command step's `label`. |
| `pipelines.default.step.oidc` | ✅ | Open ID Connect configuration that will be applied for this Bitbucket pipeline step. The generated command step in the corresponding Buildkite pipeline will [request](https://buildkite.com/docs/agent/v3/cli-oidc#request-oidc-token) an OIDC token and export it into the job environment as `BITBUCKET_STEP_OIDC_TOKEN` (to be passed to `sts` to assume an AWS role for example) |
| `pipelines.default.step.runs-on` | ✅ | Allocating the Bitbucket pipeline to run on a self-hosted runner with the specific label. All `runs-on` values will be set as agent [tags](https://buildkite.com/docs/pipelines/defining-steps#targeting-specific-agents) in the Buildkite command step for targeting on specific Buildkite agents within an organization. |

> | `pipelines.default.step.services` | ✅ | The name of one or more services defined at `definitions.services.<name>` that will be applied for this step. Translated to utilise the service configuration with the [docker-compose-buildkite-plugin](https://github.com/buildkite-plugins/docker-compose-buildkite-plugin). |

Reviewer: this should be a warning as the translation is not 100% and there should be a link to the services portion of the doc for further information

Author: Additive in the latest commit 👍

| `pipelines.default.step.script` | ✅ | The individual commands that make up a specific step. Each is translated into a singular command within the `commands` key of a Buildkite command step. |

> | `pipelines.default.step.script.pipe` | ❌ | Re-usable modules to make configuration in Bitbucket pipelines easier and modular. Consider using [Buildkite Plugins](https://buildkite.com/docs/plugins) and/or [Pipeline Templates](https://buildkite.com/docs/pipelines/templates) in configuring re-usable configuration accross a Buildkite organization. |

Reviewer: instead of templates I would suggest reviewing existing plugins for corresponding functionality

Author: Linked instead now to the plugins directory 👍

| `pipelines.default.variables` | ✅ | Custom variables that are passed to Bitbucket pipeline steps. Each variable defined in a Bitbucket pipeline step is translated to a Buildkite [input step](https://buildkite.com/docs/pipelines/input-step) with/without defaults and allowed values specified below. |
| `pipelines.default.variables.name` | ✅ | The variables' name: translated to the `key` attribute of a specific `field` of an [input step](https://buildkite.com/docs/pipelines/input-step) (text entry).|
| `pipelines.default.variables.default` | ✅ | The default variable value if no value is set. Set as the `default` attribute within the `field` of an [input step](https://buildkite.com/docs/pipelines/input-step). |
| `pipelines.default.variables.description` | ✅ | The description of the variable. Translated to the `text` attribute of a specific `field` within the generated  [input step](https://buildkite.com/docs/pipelines/input-step). |

> | `pipelines.default.variables.allowed-values` | ✅ | The variable's allowed values: each option is translated to a singular `options` object with given value of a specific `field` of an [input step](https://buildkite.com/docs/pipelines/input-step). |

Reviewer: I would move this out to its own section... specially because `default` pipelines do not allow for variables, only custom and exported pipelines (the one in definitions) do. Also there should be a warning as the code has a huge TODO to translate `$name` of defined variables to `buildkite-agent metadata get ...` calls to complete the functionality

Author: To come in the second pass for rearranging the `pipelines` section!

Author: Have just popped in the completely revitalised doc explaining starting conditions/pipeline properties (stage, step etc) separately with links between 👍

| `pipelines.pull_request` | ✅ | Application of specific Bitbucket pipeline configuration based for pull requests. Translated to a [step conditional](https://buildkite.com/docs/pipelines/conditionals#conditionals-in-steps) in the corresponding Buildkite pipeline utilising the `pull_request.id`/`BUILDKITE_PULL_REQUEST` and `build.branch`/`BUILDKITE_BRANCH` variables. |
| `pipelines.pull_request.<branch>` | ✅ | The base branch name/wildcard to apply specific Bitbucket pipeline step configuration within. Apply the configuration for all builds with a `**` wildcard. |

> | `pipelines.pull_request.<branch>.step` | ✅ | Individual step configuration for pull requests builds within a Bitbucket pipeline. See configuration options in this section (`pipelines.default.step.<property>`) for supported/unsupported properties. |

Reviewer: Same as others, I don't think that these two add any kind of useful information (unless you move step configurations to its own section and add a link to it from the `step` key translation doc)

Author: I'll be doing the sub-section for `pipelines` in a second pass - once each one of these suggestions are in place 👍

| `pipelines.tags` | ✅ | Application of specific Bitbucket pipeline configuration based for triggered tag builds. Translated to a [step conditional](https://buildkite.com/docs/pipelines/conditionals#conditionals-in-steps) in the corresponding Buildkite pipeline utilising the `build.tag`/`BUILDKITE_TAG` variable. |
| `pipelines.tags.<tag>` | ✅ | The tag name/wildcard to apply specific Bitbucket pipeline step configuration within. |

> | `pipelines.tags.<tag>.step` | ✅ | Individual step configuration for triggered tag builds within a Bitbucket pipeline. See configuration options in this section (`pipelines.default.step.<property>`) for supported/unsupported properties. |

Reviewer: Same as others, I don't think that these two add any kind of useful information (unless you move step configurations to its own section and add a link to it from the step key translation doc)

Author: I'll be doing the sub-section for `pipelines` in a second pass - once each one of these suggestions are in place 👍

# Bitbucket Pipelines

The Buildkite Migration tool's currently supported (✅), partially supported (⚠️) and unsupported (❌) properties in translation of Bitbucket pipelines to Buildkite pipelines are listed below.

> [!NOTE]  
> The Bitbucket Pipeline configuration that is described in the various sections below is specified in the central `bitbucket-pipelines.yml` within a specific Bitbucket workspace [repository](https://support.atlassian.com/bitbucket-cloud/docs/what-is-a-workspace/). In Buildkite - pipeline configuration can be set in a singular `pipeline.yml` within a repository - but can also be set and uploaded dynamically through the use of [Dynamic Pipelines](https://buildkite.com/docs/pipelines/defining-steps#dynamic-pipelines). Additionally, control and governance of Buildkite pipelines can be achieved by the use of [Pipeline Templates](https://buildkite.com/docs/pipelines/templates) to set shared pipeline configuration within a Buildkite organization.

## Clone (`clone`)

| Key | Supported? | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- |

> | `clone` | ⚠️ | Clone options for all steps of a Bitbucket pipeline. The majority of these options should be set on a Buildkite agent itself via [configuration](https://buildkite.com/docs/agent/v3/configuration) of properties such as the clone flags (`git-clone-flags`, `git-clone-mirror-flags` if utilising a Git mirror), fetch flags (`git-fetch-flags`) - or changing the entire checkout process in a customised [plugin](https://buildkite.com/docs/plugins/writing) overriding the default agent `checkout` hook. <br/><br/> Sparse-checkout properties of `code-mode`, `enabled` and `patterns` will be translated to the respective properties within the [sparse-checkout-buildkite-plugin](https://github.com/buildkite-plugins/sparse-checkout-buildkite-plugin). <br/><br/> clone` properties at the Bitbucket pipeline, if set, have higher precedence over these global properties.  |

Reviewer: Missing opening formatting backtick

```suggestion
| `clone` | ⚠️ | Clone options for all steps of a Bitbucket pipeline. The majority of these options should be set on a Buildkite agent itself via [configuration](https://buildkite.com/docs/agent/v3/configuration) of properties such as the clone flags (`git-clone-flags`, `git-clone-mirror-flags` if utilising a Git mirror), fetch flags (`git-fetch-flags`) - or changing the entire checkout process in a customised [plugin](https://buildkite.com/docs/plugins/writing) overriding the default agent `checkout` hook. <br/><br/> Sparse-checkout properties of `code-mode`, `enabled` and `patterns` will be translated to the respective properties within the [sparse-checkout-buildkite-plugin](https://github.com/buildkite-plugins/sparse-checkout-buildkite-plugin). <br/><br/> `clone` properties at the Bitbucket pipeline, if set, have higher precedence over these global properties.  |
```

Author: Hah - guess reading markdowned tables long enough gets me here 👍  Fixed @ latest

## Definitions (`definitions`)

| Key | Supported? | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `definitions` | ⚠️ | Customised definitions utilised throughout a Bitbucket pipeline. `caches` and `services` are supported for translation within Buildkite Migration tool. |
| `definitions.caches` | ⚠️ | Customised cache definitions that can be applied to specific Bitbucket pipeline steps - inclusive of folders, single file - or multifile cache. Targeted into specific steps with the `pipelines.default.step.caches.<name>` property, and in which the translation will utilise the [cache-buildkite-plugin](https://github.com/buildkite-plugins/cache-buildkite-plugin) that may require further setup/tweaking around specific caching strategies. |
| `definitions.caches.<name>` | ✅ | A customised cache name applicable for one or more steps within a Bitbucket pipeline. |
| `definitions.caches.<name>.path` | ✅ | The directory path that is desired to be cached. |

> | `definitions.caches.<name>.key.files` | ⚠️ | The list (one or more) files that are monitored for changes - and stored once its hash changes between file versions change. If multiple files are specified - multiple cache-plugin definitions are set on the resultant Buildkite command step (differing `manifest` properties between each). |

Reviewer: I would add a clarification stating that the multiple-files to multiple-cache plugin entries is not only is not equivalent, but also may probably cause issues due to multiple caches trying to manage the same folder.

Author: Added 👍

| `definitions.pipeline` | ⚠️ | Pipelines that are exported for re-use within repositories of the same workspace. Like functionality exists within Buildkite as [Pipeline Templates](https://buildkite.com/docs/pipelines/templates). |

> | `definitions.services` | ✅ | Defined Docker services that are applied within a Bitbucket pipeline. Services defined in a corresponding Bitbucket pipeline step using the `pipelines.default.step.services` property will have its configuration applied with the use of the [docker-compose-buildkite-plugin](https://github.com/buildkite-plugins/docker-compose-buildkite-plugin). <br/><br/> Generated configuration will need to be saved to a `compose.yaml` file within the repository, and the image utilised with the Buildkite command step as `app`. <br/><br/> Refer to the Bitbucket pipelines [documentation](https://support.atlassian.com/bitbucket-cloud/docs/databases-and-service-containers/) for more details on service containers and configuration references. |

Reviewer: Just like it happens with the `step.services` key, this should be a warning and a clarification added about authentication parameters not being translated

Author: Added a note 👍

## Export (`export`)

| Key | Supported? | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `export` | ❌ | Bitbucket Premium option of sharing pipeline configuration between workspaces. Not applicable within Buildkite as an attribute - like functionality exists within [Pipeline Templates](https://buildkite.com/docs/pipelines/templates). |

## Image (`image`)

| Key | Supported? | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- |

> | `image` | ✅ | The container image that is to be applied for each step within a Bitbucket pipeline, utilising the specified image within the [docker-buildkite-plugin](https://github.com/buildkite-plugins/docker-buildkite-plugin). This has lower precedence over per-step `image` configuration (see `pipelines.default.step.image`). <br/><br/> The `aws`, `aws.oidc`, `name`, `username` and `password` sub-properties are supported - refer to the Bitbucket pipelines [documentation](https://support.atlassian.com/bitbucket-cloud/docs/docker-image-options/) for more information. |

Reviewer: I would change the comment to the actual translation not the original configuration.

```suggestion
| `image` | ✅ | The container image that is to be applied for each step within a Bitbucket pipeline, utilising the specified image within the [docker-buildkite-plugin](https://github.com/buildkite-plugins/docker-buildkite-plugin). This has lower precedence over per-step `image` configuration (see `pipelines.default.step.image`). <br/><br/> The `aws`, `aws.oidc`, `name`, `username` and `password` sub-properties are supported through the use of the corresponding plugin ([Docker Login](https://github.com/buildkite-plugins/docker-login-buildkite-plugin/) or [ECR](https://github.com/buildkite-plugins/ecr-buildkite-plugin/)). |
```

Author: Altered - with the same liner referenced in the `steps` property also

## Pipeline Starting Conditions (`pipelines.<start-condition>`)

> [!NOTE]  
> Bitbucket Pipelines allows the configuration of various pipeline start conditions: each supporting different configuration and permissible properties:
> - `branches`: Defines the branch-specific configuration of a Bitbucket pipeline.
> - `custom`: A customised starting condition whereby only manual triggering is allowed.
> - `default`: The default starting configuration of a Bitbucket pipeline if it does not fall into one of the other conditions.
> - `pull_request`: Defines the pull-request specific configuration of a Bitbucket pipeline.
> - `tags`: Defines the tag specific configuration of a Bitbucket pipeline.
> 

> > For information on each of these individual starting conditions, refer to the reference within the Bitbucket Pipelines [documentation](https://support.atlassian.com/bitbucket-cloud/docs/pipeline-start-conditions/#Custom--manual--pipeline-variables).

Reviewer: Instead of referencing the BitBucket documentation I would change this to suggestions about better practices using BuildKite (like dynamic pipelines or creating different pipelines with their corresponding trigger options)

Author: Added a section suggesting these best practices additionally to the translated configuration the CLI gives here 👍

| `pipelines.branches.<branch>.step` | ✅ | Individual step configuration for a specific branch within a Bitbucket pipeline. See configuration options in this section (`pipelines.default.step.<property>`) for supported/unsupported properties. |
| `pipelines.branches.<branch>.stage` | ✅ | Stage configuration for a specific branch within a Bitbucket pipeline. View the available stage [properties](#stage-pipelinestypestage) supported by the Migrations Tool - and additional property information in the Bitbucket Pipelines [documentation](https://support.atlassian.com/bitbucket-cloud/docs/stage-options/#Stage). |

### Custom (`pipelines.custom`)

| Key | Supported? | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `pipelines.custom` | ✅ | Bitbucket pipelines that are only able to be triggered manually. The corresponding Buildkite pipeline is first generated with an [input step](https://buildkite.com/docs/pipelines/input-step) before any command jobs to ensure that triggered builds must be manually processed. |
| `pipelines.custom.<name>` | ✅ | The name of the custom Bitbucket pipeline. |

> | `pipelines.custom.<name>.import-pipeline.import` | ❌ | The specification of importing a pipeline from within a specific repository defined in top-level `definitions`. |

Reviewer: I may be inclined to point them to replacing this with a trigger step instead

Author: Added a line-item on trigger steps here

| `pipelines.<start-condition>.step.after-script` | ❌ | The actions that a Bitbucket pipeline will undertake after the commands in the `script` key are run. For similar behaviour, a [repository-level](https://buildkite.com/docs/agent/v3/hooks#hook-locations-repository-hooks) `pre-exit` hook approach will yield similar behaviour - running at the latter end of the [job lifecycle](https://buildkite.com/docs/agent/v3/hooks#job-lifecycle-hooks). |
| `pipelines.<start-condition>.step.artifacts` | ⚠️ | Build artifacts that will be required for steps later in the Bitbucket pipeline (by default, not obtained unless an explicit `buildkite-agent artifact download` [command](https://buildkite.com/docs/agent/v3/cli-artifact#downloading-artifacts) is run beforehand within the generated Buildkite command step). Artifacts that are specified (whether one specific file, or multiple) will be set within the generated command step within the `artifact_paths` [key](https://buildkite.com/docs/pipelines/command-step). Each file found matching (or via glob syntax) will be uploaded to Buildkite's [Artifact storage](https://buildkite.com/docs/agent/v3/cli-artifact) that can be obtained in later steps. |

> | `pipelines.<start-condition>.step.caches` | ✅ | Step-level dependencies downloaded from external sources (Docker, Maven, PyPi for example) which will be able to be re-used in later Bitbucket pipeline steps. Caches that are set at step level (or though the top-level `definition.cache.<name> property) are translated in the corresponding Buildkite pipeline utilising the [cache-buildkite-plugin](https://github.com/buildkite-plugins/cache-buildkite-plugin) to store the downloaded dependencies for re-use between Buildkite builds. |

Reviewer: Minor formatting and typo
```suggestion
| `pipelines.<start-condition>.step.caches` | ✅ | Step-level dependencies downloaded from external sources (Docker, Maven, PyPi for example) which will be able to be re-used in later Bitbucket pipeline steps. Caches that are set at step level (or through the top-level `definition.cache.<name>` property) are translated in the corresponding Buildkite pipeline utilising the [cache-buildkite-plugin](https://github.com/buildkite-plugins/cache-buildkite-plugin) to store the downloaded dependencies for re-use between Buildkite builds. |
```

Author: 👍

> | `pipelines.<start-condition>.step.condition` | ✅ | The configuration to prevent a Bitbucket pipeline step from running unless the specific conditional is met. Translated to an inline conditional (`if`) within the corresponding Buildkite pipelines' command step's `commands` - based on a `git diff` of the base branch. |

Reviewer: Based on the warning of sub-keys this should also be a warning

Author: Changed 👍

> | `pipelines.<start-condition>.step.condition.changeset.includePaths` | ⚠️ | The specific file (or files) that need to be detected as changed for the `condition` to apply based. This can be set as specific files - or wildcards that match multiple files in a specific directory/directories. <br/><br/> In cases where many paths are needed to be polled for changes - utilising the [monorepo-diff-buildkite-plugin](https://github.com/buildkite-plugins/monorepo-diff-buildkite-plugin) is recommended; watching for specific folders/files and uploading resultant [Dynamic pipelines](https://buildkite.com/docs/pipelines/defining-steps#dynamic-pipelines) upon diff detection. |

Reviewer: I would add a clarification stating that it is translated to a script within the step as there is no equivalent functionality:

```suggestion
| `pipelines.<start-condition>.step.condition.changeset.includePaths` | ⚠️ | The specific file (or files) that need to be detected as changed for the `condition` to apply based. This can be set as specific files - or wildcards that match multiple files in a specific directory/directories. <br/><br/> Translated to a script that will review the changed files through git. This means that the step itself will actually run and just be marked as passed, which may not be what you want or need. <br/><br/> You may want to consider utilising the [monorepo-diff-buildkite-plugin](https://github.com/buildkite-plugins/monorepo-diff-buildkite-plugin); watching for specific folders/files and uploading resultant [Dynamic pipelines](https://buildkite.com/docs/pipelines/defining-steps#dynamic-pipelines) upon diff detection. |
```

Author: Changed 👍

| `pipelines.<start-condition>.step.clone` | ⚠️ | Clone options for a specific step of a Bitbucket pipeline. The majority of these options should be set on a Buildkite agent itself via [configuration](https://buildkite.com/docs/agent/v3/configuration) of properties such as the clone flags (`git-clone-flags`, `git-clone-mirror-flags` if utilising a Git mirror), fetch flags (`git-fetch-flags`) - or changing the entire checkout process in a customised [plugin](https://buildkite.com/docs/plugins/writing) overriding the default agent `checkout` hook. Sparse checkout options are supported (with the `sparse-checkout` sub-property) |

> | `pipelines.<start-condition>.step.clone.sparse-checkout` | ✅ | Sparse-checkout option for a Bitbucket pipeline step. Translated to utilising the [sparse-checkout-buildkite-plugin](https://github.com/buildkite-plugins/sparse-checkout-buildkite-plugin). <br/><br/> Sparse-checkout properties of `code-mode`, `enabled` and `patterns` will be trasnlated to the respective properties within the mentinoed plugin's configuration. |

Reviewer: You already mention that this key is supported in the previous entry, I don't think that this is necessary

Author: Gotten rid of this row in latest - aligning with the top-level `clone`'s desc 👍

| `pipelines.<start-condition>.step.trigger` | ✅ | The configuration setting the running of a Bitbucket pipeline step manually or automatically (latter being defaulted). For `manual` triggers - an [input step](https://buildkite.com/docs/pipelines/input-step) is inserted into the generated Buildkite pipeline before the specified `script` within a further command step. Explicit dependencies with `depends_on` are set between the two steps; requiring manual processing. |

### Stage (`pipelines.<start-condition>.stage`)

| Key | Supported? | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `pipelines.<start-condition>.stage` | ✅ | The logical grouping of one or more Bitbucket pipeline steps. Bitbucket pipeline stages are translated into the corresponding Buildkite pipeline as a [group step](https://buildkite.com/docs/pipelines/group-step). |

> | `pipelines.<start-condition>.stage.condition.changeset.includePaths` | ⚠️ | The specific file (or files) that need to be detected as changed for the `condition` to apply based. This can be set as specific files - or wildcards that match multiple files in a specific directory/directories. <br/><br/> In cases where many paths are needed to be polled for changes - utilising the [monorepo-diff-buildkite-plugin](https://github.com/buildkite-plugins/monorepo-diff-buildkite-plugin) is recommended; watching for specific folders/files and uploading resultant [Dynamic pipelines](https://buildkite.com/docs/pipelines/defining-steps#dynamic-pipelines) upon diff detection. |

Reviewer: Same here:

```suggestion
| `pipelines.<start-condition>.stage.condition.changeset.includePaths` | ⚠️ | The specific file (or files) that need to be detected as changed for the `condition` to apply based. This can be set as specific files - or wildcards that match multiple files in a specific directory/directories. <br/><br/> Translated to a script that will review the changed files through git. This means that the step itself will actually run and just be marked as passed, which may not be what you want or need. <br/><br/> You may want to consider utilising the [monorepo-diff-buildkite-plugin](https://github.com/buildkite-plugins/monorepo-diff-buildkite-plugin); watching for specific folders/files and uploading resultant [Dynamic pipelines](https://buildkite.com/docs/pipelines/defining-steps#dynamic-pipelines) upon diff detection. |
``````

Author: 👍
